Editorial review: Document interest invokers (#42021)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/interest-delay-start/index.md

---
title: interest-delay-start
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/interest-delay-start
page-type: css-shorthand-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.interest-delay-start
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`interest-delay-start`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies a delay between the user showing interest in an [interest invoker](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Interest_invokers) element and the target element effect starting.

Reviewer: Perhaps a personal nit, but "target element effect starting" sounds a bit vague. Do you want to say something like "and the `interest` event being fired, which typically starts an effect on the target" ? Or just the first part?

---
title: interest-delay-start
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/interest-delay-start
page-type: css-shorthand-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.interest-delay-start
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`interest-delay-start`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies a delay between the user showing interest in an [interest invoker](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using_interest_invokers) element and the {{domxref("HTMLElement.interest_event", "interest")}} event being fired, which typically starts an effect on the target.

The `interest-delay-start` and {{cssxref("interest-delay-end")}} properties can both be set using the {{cssxref("interest-delay")}} shorthand.

## Syntax

```css

> /* Single value */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/* Keyword or custom delay */
```

interest-delay-start: normal;
interest-delay-start: 2s;
interest-delay-start: 250ms;

/* Global values */
interest-delay-start: inherit;
interest-delay-start: initial;
interest-delay-start: revert;
interest-delay-start: revert-layer;
interest-delay-start: unset;
```

### Values

The `interest-delay-start` property value is specified using the keyword `normal` or a {{cssxref("&lt;time>")}} value:

- `normal`
  - : The initial value; specifies that the delay should be set to the browser's default value.
- {{cssxref("&lt;time>")}}

>   - : Sets the delay to a specific duration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- `normal`
  - : Sets the delay to the browser's default delay. This is the initial value.
- {{cssxref("&lt;time>")}}
  - : Sets the delay to a specific duration. The value must be positive, otherwise the property becomes invalid.
```

#### HTML

We include a {{htmlelement("button")}}, a {{htmlelement("p")}}, and an {{htmlelement("input")}} of type `checkbox`. We specify the `<button>` as an interest invoker by giving it an `interestfor` attribute; its value is given as the `id` of the `<p>` element, therefore the paragraph is the invoker target. The paragraph is made into a popover by giving it a [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/popover) attribute, causing it to be initially hidden.

```html live-sample___interest-invoker-delay
<button interestfor="mypopover">a button</button>
<p id="mypopover" popover>A hover toolip</p>
<form>
  <label for="apply-delay">Apply <code>interest-delay-start: 2s</code></label>
  <input type="checkbox" id="apply-delay" />
</form>
```

#### CSS

In the CSS, we specify a rule with a `.delay` selector, which will apply an `interest-delay-start` value of `2s` to any interest invoker the `delay` class is set on. We will set this on the `<button>` when the checkbox is checked using JavaScript.

```css live-sample___interest-invoker-delay
.delay {
  interest-delay-start: 2s;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> In our script, we grab references to the `<button>` and the checkbox, then create an event listener that toggles setting and unsetting the `delay` class on the `<button>` when the checkbox value changes (is checked or unchecked).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our script, we get references to the `<button>` and the checkbox, then create an event listener that toggles the `delay` class on the `<button>` whenever the checkbox value changes (when it is checked or unchecked).
```

```js live-sample___interest-invoker-delay
const btn = document.querySelector("button");
const checkbox = document.querySelector("input");
checkbox.addEventListener("change", () => {
  btn.classList.toggle("delay");
});
```

#### Result

This renders as follows:

{{embedlivesample("interest-invoker-delay", "100%", "100")}}

Try showing interest in the button (for example by hovering or focusing it) and then losing interest to observe the popover showing and hiding. By default these actions should happen after a very short delay.

Now try checking the checkbox and trying the same actions again. This time, the popover should appear after a delay of 2 seconds once interest is shown. The delay once interest is lost should be unaffected.

### Removing `interest-delay-start` after interest has been shown

In this example, we show how to remove the `interest-delay-start` from multiple interest invoker elements once interest has been shown on one of them.

> This is a useful technique — having a popover appear as soon as interest is shown on any invoker would create an annoying user experience, which is why the browser adds a small delay by default (see the [`interest-delay` description](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/interest-delay#description) for more details). However, after the user has shown interest in one invoker, it is convenient for them to be able to quickly move between different popovers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a useful technique. Having a popover appear as soon as interest is shown on any invoker would create a distracting and annoying user experience, which is why browsers add a small delay by default (see the [`interest-delay` description](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/interest-delay#description) for more details). However, after the user has shown interest in one invoker, it is convenient for the users to be able to quickly move between other invokers without a delay.
```
